Proposal to specify servers to join via for federated invites (#4125)
matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals: proposals/4125-federation-invite-via.md

Author: Now that I think about it, it would make sense that for a given room, if an invite happens over federation for one user with servers `a` `b` and `c` specified in the via field, but then later another user on the same server also gets invited with servers `d` `e` and `f`, the server should try to join via the servers specified in the most recent invite, so in this case `d` `e` and `f`. 

Not sure if it would be a good idea to try servers `a` `b` and `c` as a fallback though.

# MSC4125: Specify servers to join via when inviting over federation

## Introduction

Currently when a user is invited over federation, the receiver of the invite does not know what servers
are in the room, so when attempting to join over federation, servers typically have to guess what server
to join via, typically with the `sender`'s server.

However, the server of the user who sent the invite may not be online, meaning that the user is unable to
join the room they are invited to until the `sender`'s server comes online, if it ever does. If they do not
know anyone else in the room, they cannot even ask out-of-bounds for someone else to invite them to the room.

In the case of rejecting invites, it can lead to users of the room believing that the invited user has neither
accepted nor rejected the invite, while it might have been locally rejected by the invited user's homeserver due
to it being unable to reach the sender's homeserver.

## Proposal

The proposed fix is to add an additional `via` field in the request body of `PUT /_matrix/federation/v2/invite`
to inform the server it is inviting of possible servers it can join via. The same is **not** done for `v1` of this

> endpoint as `v2` should be used by default, and a sever that only impelemnts `v1` is unlikely to update to support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
endpoint as `v2` should be used by default, and a server that only implements `v1` is unlikely to update to support
```

Author: I would have thought the spell check CI would have run by now. :thinking:

# MSC4125: Specify servers to join via when inviting over federation

## Introduction

Currently when a user is invited over federation, the receiver of the invite does not know what servers
are in the room, so when attempting to join over federation, servers typically have to guess what server
to join via, typically with the `sender`'s server.

However, the server of the user who sent the invite may not be online, meaning that the user is unable to
join the room they are invited to until the `sender`'s server comes online, if it ever does. If they do not
know anyone else in the room, they cannot even ask out-of-bounds for someone else to invite them to the room.

In the case of rejecting invites, it can lead to users of the room believing that the invited user has neither
accepted nor rejected the invite, while it might have been locally rejected by the invited user's homeserver due
to it being unable to reach the sender's homeserver.

## Proposal

> The proposed fix is to create a new version of the `PUT /_matrix/federation/*/invite` endpoint based on

Reviewer: If the change is only to add a new field, why create a new version of just adding the field to the old version? This seems like a backwards-compatible change to me.

Reviewer: I believe that new versions are only for breaking changes, but don't take my word for it.

Author: Seems like you are right: https://spec.matrix.org/proposals/#technical-notes
> Backwards incompatible changes to endpoints are allowed when no other alternative exists, and must be versioned under a new major release of the API.

Author: Would it make sense to add this field to both `v1` and `v2` of this endpoint, or just `v2`?

Reviewer: I don't know the server-server API very well but it seems to me that `v1` is only kept around for compatibility with old implementations. If a server doesn't implement `v2` it's unlikely to implement a new field in `v1`.

Author: [Done](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4125/commits/b0fbcd3934b19c2ea94a4b52228263171cb86df2)
